# ADDA-grid-plot-codes
This repository includes example Python codes for plotting scattering-matrix elements in mueller_scatgrid files computed using the ADDA code. The three included codes were developed for visualising the scattering matrix elements in the mueller_scatgrid files provided at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15040283 and used for a research publication at https://arxiv.org/abs/arXiv:2501.10019 (Pre-print). All codes visualise by default the scattering-matrix values in files inc0_mueller_scatgrid, inc20_mueller_scatgrid, inc40_mueller_scatgrid, and inc60_mueller_scatgrid, assumed to be located in directories whose names include information of the number of particles in the ensemble, the number of faces (F), surface roughness standard deviation (S), refractive index, and a size parameter of x = 2pi*radius / wavelength. The particles touch a semi-infinite substrate with a planar interface. The zenith angles < 90° map the upper hemisphere above the substrate and zenith angles > 90° the lower hemisphere in the substrate.

In the codes plotSME_surf_az.py and plotSME_surf_az_sfd.py, the 10-based logarithm of the first (s11) element of the 4x4 Mueller scattering matrix is mapped in two polar plots as a function of both the zenith and azimuth angles, and one line plot as a function of the zenith angle but azimuth restricted to the scattering plane. For further details, see Figure 11 of the publication cited above; the code creates the panel 11D (12-face polyhedra, refractive index of 2.17 + 0.004i with size parameter of 6). The second code calculates additionally the size-frequency-distribution weighting for s11 using size parameters 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 using non-uniform Simpson's rule (instead of using a single size parameter) before mapping. 

In the code plotSME_surf_inplane.py the diagonal, s12, and s34 elements (as relative to s11) are plotted as a function of the zenith angle in the upper hemisphere restricted to the scattering plane. The code calculates the size-frequency-distribution weighting as described above for plotSME_surf_az_sfd.py for two cases of refractive indices: 2.17 + 0.004i and 2.79 + 0.0155i. The created figure displays the results in incidence angles 0°, 20°, 40°, and 60°. The code creates Figure 14 in the publication cited above. For further details, please the original publication.
